(bright upbeat music) - Yeah, hi, hello all you news-keteers out there,
welcome to "Cody's Funtime News Show for Winners!" Today, we'll be discussing news.
Okay, so, the news has been terrible and heartbreaking, and angering, and sexy, but mostly only those first three things.
Possibly even more so than usual. From the constant background of the war in Ukraine, to the baby formula shortages
caused by corporate laziness and greed, hearings about the attempted coup on January 6th, the ramp up of hate against the LGBTQ's et cetera,
and of course, the pesky mass murders that keep (beep) happening in this country.
In May alone, black grocery shoppers were shot by a white supremacist in Buffalo, people at churches were shot in two separate instances,
and of course, the murder of 19 children and two teachers by a shooter at Robb Elementary School in Texas, coupled with the absolute incompetence
and cowardice by the armed police who stood outside and let the shooting continue. And I'm sure that as I say this,
another shooting is currently happening, oh, and the planet is angry, can't forget that.
So, we've all been a bit consumed by rage and grief, or as we like to call it in America, the News.
(banging continues) When so many terrible things are happening all at once,
it's hard to maintain focus, something is banging on my walls from the outside,
not sure what that is but let's just add it to the list. It's hard to focus on a single terrible thing right now,
which is why the leaked supreme court draft overturning Roe V. Wade has kind of slipped out of the news,
Which is kinda wild, because roughly 50% of the country is about to lose a fundamental right to bodily autonomy,
and 100% of the country is going to be deeply impacted, so we should probably talk about it.
(banging continues) What is that? A (beep) moose? Am I being The raided?
Gonna power through this, okay. Stripping people of their bodily autonomy and medical rights is extremely bad, and it's even worse
that the GOP are celebrating this massive loss of human rights in the name of "saving children." Because here's a secret, well, it's not really a secret,
more like a statement based on reality, but the GOP hates children, or, at the very least, couldn't give less of a shit
about them when they're shot to death in schools, face poverty and hunger, or die due to a lack of medical care and resources.
And we're just talking about the children in the United States, children in other countries are worth less than dirt
to Conservatives, and honestly, also to establishment Democrats. Can't forget those useless, useless Democrats.
I'm going to talk more about how much the GOP and Dems hate children later, trust me, it'll be SUPER fun,
but first we do need to talk about this whole overturning Roe V. Wade thing, because going back almost 5 decades
and human rights progress is kinda a big deal, or according to some big brained experts,
it's totally not actually. - Do you think that the state should have the right
to be able to determine abortion laws? 'Cause still, it won't change the laws on my... Yeah, that's all Roe V. Wade overturning means of Colorado,
you can have abortion, like they have all the way up until nine months, and Texas can have a heartbeat though. - Yeah. - Yeah.
- So, again, it's gonna be let 1,000 flowers bloom, it's going to be each state gets to decide on it's own
specific abortion protocols, which is precisely what the constitution suggested at the time. - Most abortions now even when you go to a clinic,
are done with the pill. - [Woman] Yeah. - The pill, and pills are easier to get in America,
we know that, so, (audience laughing) for the people who say we are going back to 1973,
we're not. - (speaks gibberish) got you womb havers, It's no big deal after all,
all you folks upset about this news are just on your periods, you see. It's just that some states can choose
not to allow abortions. What about their choice, huh? And like Bill Maher said, you can just get a pill now,
how hard is it to get an extremely hard to get pill that the GOP is specifically restricting in their states and is very hard to get because of that?
So, just get that really hard to get pill, it's easy, video over, I guess, N.B.D, roll those credits,
roll them, come on, oh, wait, sorry. Maybe Steven Crowder and Ben Shapiro and Bill Maher
are the Roe V Wade experts we all universally accept them to be, and perhaps I need to look into this a tad further.
Because once Roe V. Wade is overturned, millions of people will suddenly lose access to abortion
in their states, and that seems bad. In fact, 13 states have trigger laws,
as in various bans on abortion access that will go into effect once the supreme court overturns Roe V Wade,
which could be really darn soon, it could be the day we're filming this. A lot of clinics are all ready preparing
by ceasing all appointments after this month. Because overall, it's predicted that at least 26 states
would ultimately ban abortion once Roe is overturned. As of May 5th, 86 bills have been introduced in 31 states
to restrict or ban abortion, and 8 states have enacted abortion bans, with 2 blocked in lower courts.
But heck, I guess you're just supposed to go to a state where it's legal, which is, in many cases, what does happen?
After the Texas ban went into effect, Planned Parenthood in neighboring states saw a 800% increase
in abortion patients, and a 2500% increase specifically in Texan patients.
So, problem totally solved, of course, going to a neighboring state only works
if you can even afford to do it, which many people can't. Accessing abortion from Texas now requires people to travel
over 250 miles on average, which, by the way, will become a much greater distance
when Roe V. Wade is destroyed as you'll have whole clusters of states banning abortion. So, you either need money for a plane ticket,
a car, gas for that car, which by the way, yeah, lodging, and savings to cover your lost wages.
Currently in Texas, the strict timing requirements for people to obtain abortions may cost some people their jobs,
since workers' rights are about as piss poor as reproductive rights. For those who live in poverty, who, in 2014,
accounted for half of everyone seeking abortions, this may be impossible, or lead to being even deeper in poverty.
But sure, not a big deal says Bill Maher, TV show host. So, it's ban on abortions for the poor for now,
because, even if you have the money to go through the ordeal of traveling to get an abortion,
anti-abortion states are looking into making that illegal as well. Lawmakers in Missouri are trying to pass a bill
that would, in similar fashion to the Texas heart beat law, allow individuals to sue anyone helping patients
cross state lines for an abortion. Other bills being introduced include one that would simply make it illegal for people
to obtain abortions out of state if any part of the abortion counseling occurred within Missouri, or if payment occurs from within Missouri,
or if someone lives within Missouri, or "the conduct of a person or entity
creates a substantial connection with this state," whatever that means.
If you're in a Missouri State of Mind, I suppose. It would even ban obtaining an abortion outside
of Missouri if, "sexual intercourse occurred within this state and the child may have been conceived
by that act of intercourse." Although, they don't say whether it counts if you're having sex right on the border,
and the sperm kind of shoots over into the vagina in another state.
Is that allowed, or would this count as sperm trafficking? Spooge laundering? Cum smuggling?
Nice, I like that, also Batter Baron, baby juice bootlegging. The old nob slurry moonshine,
a hot milk pirate, if you will, I have so many of these. Anyway, so they want to ban abortions,
and then ban leaving to get an abortion, spunk sneakers! All right, that one is pretty good okay, moving on.
Seems like they're trying to trap women, like prisoners, is my point. Before I got distracted by the jizz jokes,
and boy, they aren't stopping there. Shortly after the supreme court decision leaked, Idaho senior lawmaker Brent Crane wanted to hold a hearing
over banning emergency contraception, and a failed Louisiana bill tried to criminalize IUD's
by expanding the definition of abortion, and would have defined abortion as homicide. According to Paul Wieland, the Republican State Senator
who led the Missouri effort to stop Medicaid from covering contraceptives like IUDs and Plan B,
"The bottom line is there is only one time something definitively happens and that's the moment of conception.
Once that happens, anything that happens should not be state funded." So basically, as soon as the sperm bonks into the egg,
you're literally and figuratively (beeps). Also, claiming that there is "only one time
something definitively happens" is just weird and wrong, there are many, many, many different stages of reproduction.
I could declare that I believe life begins when the sperm gets peed out of the balls. I can just say that,
and I do frequently on public transport, but it doesn't make my opinion the definitive fact.
But even though this Missouri effort failed, the repealing of Roe v. Wade would likely encourage further efforts to reduce access
to and illegalize contraceptives. So, the argument that we shouldn't worry, that it'll still be legal in some states,
or that since most of the country supports abortion, then it'll be protected is completely dishonest,
and frankly, cowardly, and can be summed up with this exchange. - And we know that most Americans,
including Conservatives do not believe that. They are not on the page. - They voted it in in Texas not that long ago.
- Right, acting like this will blow over really seems to ignore the fact that conservative lawmakers are already passing these laws
despite what the majority wants, because their end goal is to ban abortions everywhere
and always has been. After all, people like Crowder pretending this is no big deal are the same people who think abortion is murder,
so, what exactly do you think their endgame is? This isn't some kind of polite display of restraint
like someone daintily eating a few chips at a wedding, they aim to shove the entire nacho spread in their maws,
no matter how much it embarrasses my parents. My fault for nacho wedding, I guess. But maybe the reason Crowder and other pregnancy crusaders
are being so adorably coy is that they know, as I've already pointed out that the right to an abortion
is wildly popular. 61% of Americans believe abortion should be legal in all or most cases, while only 37% believe
it should be illegal in all or most cases. That said, it's a highly polarized issue,
with about 80% of Democrats saying abortion should be legal in all or most cases, and only about 40% of Republicans
believing it should be legal in all or most cases. Still, 40% of Republican leaning people
is a healthy chunk of the party. So, maybe that's why they're so focused on the technicality
of Roe v. Wade not "banning abortion," even though it will directly result in it being banned in many states.
And it's also probably why they're groping their pearls over the leak.
- I'll begin with the leak itself, it is unprecedented for a full draft decision to leak this way. You've heard of the outcome of decisions before?
They happen with Row itself, but the actual draft decision, for that to leak in the full public view is insane.
- This coupled with the leak demonstrates how the left is so obsessed with this issue that they are willing to delegitimize one of the most reviewed institutions
in our system of government, and institution that despite its flaws works in all, has served our country well.
- Sorry, interrupting the montage to point out how cool it is for Republican Senator Mike Lee to say the left is obsessed with abortion
and not his own party, who are making laws to do bounty hunting on anyone helping someone get an abortion.
Anyways, continue the montage of very serious people. Oh, and can we get like, some really dramatic music over it too?
- Institutions that I'm a part of, if someone said that one line of one opinion
would be leaked by anyone, and you would say, that's impossible, no one would ever do that.
There's such a belief in the Rule of Law, belief in the court, a belief in what we were doing,
that that was verboten, it was beyond anyone's understanding.
- Sorry, interrupting the montage again to point out that this dude's wife tried to privately pressure lawmakers
into overturning Biden's presidential victory in favor of Trump. And when the Supreme Court ruled
they would not take the case of Pennsylvania Republicans who wanted to challenge the election results, Clarence Thomas dissented,
and it's hard to know how much of this is because he's a Conservative shill, or a shill for his wife. Anyways, continue the montage,
which I guess is not technically a montage anymore. Continue and then conclude the series
of regularly interrupted clips, please. - Let me explain this, not a big fan of the leak.
I'm glad to hear what we've heard, but let me give you a guess, I'm pretty sure the leak is from the Left, why?
This is a intimidation tactic. - Oh my stars and garters. Not the sanctity of the Supreme Court.
Or wait, counterpoint, who gives a (beep) pebble of a (beep)? If we're talking about the "sanctity" of the Supreme Court
like it's some holy resting place, uh, well, hey, have you guys looked at the Supreme Court lately?
It's kind of a hot mess, and not the fun kind you'd smuggle across state lines, like for starters, the Supreme Court has very little
in terms of oversight. Also, the judges are not governed by any code of ethical conduct,
and are the only judges in the entire US exempt from such. That's odd, huh?
Justice John Roberts was "looking into" developing an ethical code, but I guess they just kinda,
(blows raspberry) gave up. So I dunno, maybe these people suddenly concerned with the Supreme Court's sanctity could look into that.
There's also the growing issue of the Shadow Docket, which is an emergency procedure where the court can issue summary decisions
without oral arguments. It's meant to only be used when not issuing an immediate order would cause "irreparable harm".
For that reason, it used to be implemented very infrequently, but since 2017 it's become routine.
To quote Associate Justice Elena Kagan, the court's use of it has become "more unreasonable,
inconsistent, and impossible to defend". That was from her dissent to the Whole Woman's Health versus Jackson case,
which challenged the Texas's "heartbeat act" that outlaws abortions after a heartbeat is detected
and allows people to sue anyone who helps women seek abortions. It's that "bounty-hunting" anti-abortion law in Texas
you might have heard about. And this challenge to the law brought to the Supreme Court was relegated to the shadow docket
before getting dismissed with no oral arguments, no hearing, no transparency, just (blows raspberry),
womp womp, shrug. The lack of transparency and oversight is especially concerning given the clear conflict
of interest we see with Clarence Thomas. As I mentioned earlier, his wife Ginni Thomas texted Trump's chief of staff,
Mark Meadows, pleading with him to help overturn the election. And yet Clarence Thomas hasn't recused himself
from any cases regarding the election despite a possible conflict of interest.
Very good integrity and sanctity guys, you're nailing it. Also like, five of the nine supreme court justices
are blatant Conservative partisans, and Mitch McConnel didn't let Obama have a justice in his last year in office
while rushing through Trump's appointee less than a month before the election, before Ginsberg's body was cold, so you know.
Sure seems like they don't actually give a (beep) about the sanctity of the Supreme Court or really anything at all.
And speaking of sanctity, I should really look into what's threatening the sanctity of my walls
so, I'm gonna cut to an ad break, to investigate. Also, for the money.
Yo, check it cool pants, people are asking me hey Cody, how did you learn to jump so high?
Well friend, it's a few things, my natural talent for disrupting vertical spaces, an ancient trick I learned while traveling abroad,
and of course, AG1 by Athletic Greens, they are the category leading super food that brings convenient daily nutrition to everybody,
even low jumpers like you. AG1 replaces all of your vitamins and crams them all
into a single delicious green liquid drink, why? Just one tasty scoop of AG1 contains 75 vitamins,
minerals and whole food sourced ingredients in one convenient daily serving. Here, watch me do the thing where I drink it.
Yum, tum, tummies, tums, green in my bum. This is how I jump so high,
combined of course with the mystical properties I obtain traveling to the by gone city of Ottawa, Canada.
Not only does AG1 fill in your nutritional gaps, because we don't always have time to eat right,
but their recipe is ever changing based on the latest nutritional news, we love news,
is designed for any lifestyle, like vegan, or peal, or jumpy jump highs, or no jumpy, low jumpers,
or parents, or friends of parents, or athletes, or lazies, or the non-athletes, or the (speaks gibberish).
All the things, so try it, why don't you? To make easier, Athletic Green is going to give you
an immune supporting free one year supply of Vitamin D and five free travel packs with your first purchase
if you visit athticgreens.com/morenews today. Again, simply visit athleticgreens.com/morenews
to take control of your health and give AG1 a try and then, I'll demonstrate.
See. (upbeat music)
Hey, we're back, forgot to check outside my walls, I just sort of stared off for a while trying to think of more sperm smuggling jokes,
but I'm sure it's nothing. I mean the banging is getting louder and some of the drywall is beginning to crumble but again,
probably nothing. So we've talked about the Conservative response to the Roe V. Wade news and their assurance is
that it's totally fine, which means it's probably time to discuss the actual human consequences,
as well as the medical science and like, reality of it all. Because while all the pundits in the world
can opine on the abstracts or broad points, we should probably ask what overturning of Roe v. Wade means
for people with wombs. And no better way to do that than have me talk about it, because as someone without a womb, I can confidently say-
(wall breaks) Oh my God. You're the moose?
Is that my shirt? - What? Get up, shoo, shoo. - Shoo, what the?
- It's my turn. I am the show captain now. - You tore through my wall with your hands, I have a door...
- Yep, yeah, I'll call you if I need anything thanks you. Thank you. - You're welcome.
- Hey folks, Katy Stoll here, representing and speaking for every single person on the planet who has a uterus.
- [Cody] Yeah, I don't know if that's true. - Oh it is, group text.
Okay so, for starters, don't get me wrong, access to reproductive health affects everyone.
In fact, even people who can't get pregnant are often able to cause pregnancies through this technique called (beep)
and most well-adjusted people, when engaged in this (beep), actually care about their partners
and their health and rights and so on. That said, the most severe consequences will, of course,
fall on those whose uteruses are being meddled with. Especially when it comes to their health,
and especially when it comes to the most vulnerable people. Because, you know America's slogan,
"Kick them while they're down, and then piss on them, Home of The Brave," or something like that.
The Texas abortion ban, for example, is going to disproportionately affect low income,
immigrant, black, and Hispanic people. Black women are also disproportionately likely to die
as a result of pregnancy. But of course the health risks of restricting abortion will impact everyone with a uterus.
Being denied access to abortion is linked to worse health outcomes, because the risks of childbirth are far greater
than any risk associated with abortion. In the worst case scenarios, people die giving birth.
One study predicted a 21% increase in pregnancy-related deaths following a national abortion ban,
and hundreds more women dying per year. And would be even greater among the black population,
where pregnancy-related death would increase by over 30%. And we've known this since 1976,
when the CDC found that restricting access to abortion increases the risk of death for the patient,
and not only does the U.S have the worst maternal mortality rate compared to other rich countries,
this rate goes up even higher in states where there are restrictions on abortions. In fact, it's over 50% higher
than in less restrictive states. Not to mention that the states most likely to ban abortion all ready have higher rates of maternal mortality
than the rest of the United States to begin with. In the 12 states in which abortions are restricted and are likely to be further restricted
or banned out right, maternal mortality went up 38% due to those restrictions,
and states that lack Planned Parenthood clinics saw an increase of mortality by 8%.
All of that is to say, it seems like if you actually valued life, you would be concerned about these numbers, and wonder why some states seem to be killing mothers
way faster than other states. And this isn't exclusive to the United States either, pretty much every country with abortion bans
regularly kill women because of those bans. The W.H.O. estimates that of the 67,800 women who die
from abortion complications each year, 67,500 of those are in developing countries
with restrictive abortion laws. And even when we're not talking about people seeking abortions,
these laws tend to kill women who are experiencing complications during pregnancy. There are just so many heartbreaking stories
about women dying because doctors didn't want to break a law to save them. Stories which, buckle up, I'm about to tell right now,
and warning, it might piss you off, it should piss you off anyway.
In Ireland, fetal heartbeat laws prevent doctors from performing abortions or inducing miscarriages
unless they could prove there was a threat to the mother's life. 31 year old Savita Halappanavar died
from a wanted pregnancy because, while doctors determined miscarriage was inevitable,
they were too afraid of breaking the law to induce the miscarriage. Savita died of septic shock and multiple organ failure.
In Nicaragua, 22 year old Olga Reyes died after languishing in pain at the hospital for hours
due to an ectopic pregnancy. Ectopic pregnancies, by the way, are never viable,
but the ban on abortion and potential prison sentences they faced made doctors fearful to treat her.
In El Salvador, 33 year old Manuela didn't have an abortion, she fell ill, went to the hospital, and miscarried.
Instead of receiving care after the traumatic experience, she was handcuffed to her hospital bed
and was charged with homicide, despite the fact that it is typically impossible to tell the difference between an "induced" miscarriage
and a "natural" miscarriage. Manuela died two years later of cancer while in prison.
In Poland, 30 year old Izabela died after her water broke early at 22 weeks.
Despite it being legal in Poland to conduct an abortion in cases where the mother's life is in danger,
doctors feared they wouldn't be able to prove this, and wanted to wait for the baby's heart to stop inside of Izabela.
Despite her pleas for help, Izabela died, and she left behind her nine year old daughter.
Poland, like the U.S, once allowed for abortion, but in 2021 enacted basically a total-ban.
As we learned from Izabela's story, even though it has "exceptions" for the life of the mother, when doctors can face severe legal repercussions,
they may delay treatment until it's too late. And now, they have a pregnancy registry,
which can be used to track women who are pregnant, and potentially investigate or imprison women
whose pregnancies end in miscarriage, much like the case of Manuela in El Salvador.
In Brazil, abortion is illegal, and while there are exceptions for rape or risk to the mother's life,
the far right Bolsonaro government has introduced a regulation that requires doctors to gather evidence and report to the police anyone
who comes to them for an abortion after being raped. Human Rights Watch points out this is clearly meant
to discourage rape survivors from seeking abortions, fearing arrest if the investigation finds
that they weren't really raped. Any who, that's just a few of the stories,
and now you probably understand why I felt the deep burning need to punch my way through Cody's wall.
Abortion bans mean that pregnant people will be regarded as potential murder suspects if they miscarry, or at the very least,
as disposable incubators, whose lives comes third after the fetus and the hospital's liability.
But pregnancy cultists argue that it's okay for people's bodies to not belong to them, for them to suffer, maybe even die,
because this is in the name of saving an innocent life. So, okay, okay.
So, let's break it down, what is this life that is worth stripping people of their rights,
and even their own lives? Should we make this a segment? I never get to do segments. (bright upbeat music)
Perfect. Hey Cody, Cody guess what? I got my own segment title! - [Cody] Did you tip over my car too?
- Okay, well, first of all, the abortion debate isn't really about life,
it's about human life. We're okay with killing life, even vegans, since plants are alive, even the bad plants,
like the chayote, just look at that piece of (beep) plant. It looks like Shrek's ball sack.
(beeps) Chayote, I hate you. Anyway, the non-religious moral issue is killing a person,
so what's a person? Is it an egg that the uterus sheds and lets die naturally all the time?
Is it the sperm, that most often ends up dying in a sock or, if there's time, a slightly heated gourd?
Is it the moment the sperm grazes against the egg's zona pecullidae?
Is it when the sperm is halfway nestled into the egg's membrane? Is it before or after the acrosome reaction,
when the sperm's head melts and releases its genetic information? Is it the zygote, a single cell full of the sperm
and egg's DNA? Is it turning the first stage of meiosis?
Or is it when the cell begins mitosis? Is it when the blastocyst forms, this charming little cutie?
Or is it when the embryo develops a mouth hole, at 4 weeks? Or maybe, it's when it starts to look like this instead,
which is a dog fetus at 4 weeks. But hey now, maybe we shouldn't base it on looks,
but rather on whether it's got a human brain. The brain, by week 6, can start to have electrical activity,
but it's less complicated than a shrimp's brain. By week 10, the cerebrum has started to develop,
which begins very, very smooth, similar to a reptile's dumb delicious brain,
but at this point the fetus remains unresponsive to stimuli. So, okay then, I don't know, is it a person by week 13,
when the fetus can start to move, but its brain is smaller and less developed than a rabbit's brain,
continues to lack sentience or respond to anything in a purposeful way, and has activity similar to a sea slug?
By now, we've actually moved past the point of when 92% of abortions take place.
At 14-20 weeks, only 6% of abortions are performed. At 23 weeks, the fetus's brain is considered viable,
and the fetus can respond to stimuli, but by 21 weeks, fewer than 1% of abortions are performed,
and surveys of people who have had these performed either report discovering a fetal health anomaly,
discovering a health risk to themselves, or were unable to access abortion before 21 weeks,
either due to financial or legal barriers, or minors being afraid of their parents, or victims of domestic violence afraid of their partners.
So, is the 21 week old fetus a person?
Should we force women to give birth to their 21 week old fetus, even if it threatens their life?
Should we force people to give birth if their fetus has severe health issues that would quickly kill the fetus,
or if they would be born without a brain? Do we force children to give birth
because they hid it from their parents too long? But hey, these are very realistic,
heartbreaking hypothetical questions. Maybe we should get a little wackier with it,
a little fun, a little funky. Do we have an example of some kind of impossible,
outlandish situation? Something that doesn't happen, maybe, maybe we can create some kind of (beep) A.I
to perfectly craft the single worst take on, oh ho, boy, okay, nevermind.
That's perfect, thank you Tim, you scabby little ingrown hair, you. - And I'm just gonna say it, look, first and foremost,
you guys, you know that I lean pro choice on this issue, and I'll explain in great detail to get into all the stuff,
but I certainly don't lean in the direction of whether modern left has gone, because they are outright pro abortion.
But I can say this definitively, the pro life stance is a strong moral stance.
The pro choice stance is not. - Oh, okay, okay, okay, okay, sorry,
sorry, I didn't realize you were pro-choice, unlike the left, who you claim is pro-abortion?
I mean, you're right, we do love abortion, that's our thing babe.
That's what we're doing out there, constantly protesting in front of OBGYN clinics.
I personally push on every baby bump I see, hard, we just hate babies, you know?
Tim is so pro-choice that he claims there's no strong moral stance to keep abortions safe and available,
besides the health and freedom of the mother, I guess? I guess that doesn't count, Tim?
Tim is so, so pro-choice that when the Roe V Wade news first broke his entire studio exploded in celebration
like they were watching the moon landing. - Oh my goodness, thank you, thank you God.
- Supreme Court has voted to overturn Row v. Wade, we hope that Row and Casey must be overruled
just as the lead of rights, initial majority draft circulated inside the court, oh my,
what, this is nuts. - Anyway, back to Tim's tweet, which asks, "What happens if a woman is on the way
to get an abortion at 8 months but goes into labor in the lobby of the abortion clinic and accidentally delivers the baby
before it could be terminated?" Oh gosh, I dunno, I guess the doctors
could take a legally acquired AR-15 and shoot the baby, 'cause our country loves shooting babies.
But the actual answer to this, not that Tim Pool was actually interested,
is that as soon as it has left her body, she can't terminate it, because the fetus is no longer in her body.
And hey, also, this never happens. The only situation even remotely close to this
is if the pregnancy has to be induced early due to a deadly situation for the mother, such as pre-eclampsia.
If the fetus is born alive, doctors do not kill it, but it is up to the family if they should try to resuscitate
the extremely premature baby, or give the premature baby palliative care until it dies naturally.
Now, this is often a painful decision for the parents who may have to choose between limiting the premature baby's pain,
or trying to resuscitate it, even if it's unlikely or impossible that it will survive.
There are bills called "born alive abortion survivors" that would force doctors to continually resuscitate babies
born prematurely, even those with abnormalities that are incompatible with life,
meaning that the baby will not survive, even if it's against the parent's wishes. This means potentially forcing a doomed baby
through painful procedures until it finally dies. There are whole ethics debates in neonatology
about whether persistently resuscitating likely unviable newborns is actually moral,
given the high chance of death and potential suffering. It's controversial, so maybe it should be left up
to the doctors and parents, just like we leave end-of-life decisions up to doctors and next of kin should the person be unable to communicate?
Seems like there's a big moral stance here concerning the right for people to make these extremely difficult choices.
But in this country, we have decided that your right to your own body always supersedes someone else's rights to use your body,
except for pregnancy. That's kinda weird, right? We don't require forced blood and organ donations,
even after someone's died and is no longer using their body. But if babies are going to be the one exception,
why is it only uterus-havers who have to give up their bodily autonomy if they have sex?
Because currently, we don't even force actual parents to donate blood or bone marrow
to their already born children if they need it to survive. But a pregnant person has an obligation to the fetus
that we don't require of anyone else. Mandatory organ donations isn't a thing.
We also don't ban men from having sex after a certain age, even though men over 40 years old
are 23% more likely to cause a miscarriage, and the sperm of men over 45 are 74% more likely
than younger men to cause a miscarriage. Also it just has that old sperm vibe, like a dusty car.
So, should old sperm be illegal? Should we sterilize old testicles?
If that sounds like a grotesque violation over men's bodily autonomy, you are correct,
just like what we're doing now to women. And if life begins at conception
as so many Republicans suggest, should we make it illegal for people to drink
or smoke or eat sushi after sex, just in case? But even things like working long hours
or accidental falls can cause a miscarriage. So, if a company overworks someone whose pregnant,
are they liable for murder charges? If a woman trips and falls and it ends in a miscarriage,
is she tried for involuntary manslaughter? Do we want to live in a society of forced organ donation,
treating every pregnant person as a potential criminal if they run too fast or eat sushi before they know they're pregnant,
and chopping everyone's balls off after 45 years of age? 'Cause I'm ready, folks,
I'm ready I've got my organ harvesters and clamps and castration wrenches, good to go.
I bought them years ago and they're just collecting dust, or option two, maybe we should be in charge
of our own (beep) bodies, seems like that's a pretty clear moral stance to me.
Hey Cody, guess what? I did the rainbow hand thing!
- Oh cool, that's great. Hey, listen, my deposit is not going to cover this hole so maybe, you could spot me or like, pay for it?
Since you did it. - Oh, yeah, that's gonna be a hard no from me,
but the real question is why aren't you so angry that you're also punching holes in your walls?
It feels great, Cody, cathartic. And since both genders are equally against abortion bans,
its really frustrating that this always seem to fall on women, I mean, maybe you should be hosting your own show
instead of making me do it, do you ever think of that? - Okay, I'll take over, I was hosting before...
- Great, I'm gonna go shop for ball clamps. - What? (car crashing) Oh, wow, she just jumped right through my window,
head first, just dove. I might need to call my landlord?
So, as Katy explained before she leapt out of my window and then flipped my car back over and then stole my car and from the sounds of it,
immediately totaled my car and walked away unscathed, is that in terms of the medical and practical and scientific aspects,
access to abortion is safer as well as fits with our countries general moral principle
of bodily autonomy, nor is the concept of life and when it starts anything but simple.
And so ultimately, it seems like people should just have access to safe abortions and be allowed to make their own choices.
Like America, the free place for freedom stuff. But ultimately if you morally believe
that all these scientific, medical, and ethical issues are moot, because as soon as the sperm bonks into the egg,
there's a soul, we're not gonna try to change your mind. And so, we need to talk about abortion
as it relates to religion as well, even though we shouldn't have to. The belief in when or whether a soul comes into being,
well, that's your religion, we can't disprove a religion because religion is based on belief, not science.
Personally, I think we develop a soul the first time we look into Daniel Craig's eyes, for that is when we only truly become alive.
So, it's subjective and often religious, and like, isn't this country all about not dictating others
based on your personal religion? I thought that was the main thing about America's founding, other than slavery and syphilis.
So, why would we dictate our abortion laws based on Christians? After all, other religions actually include the right
to an abortion in their beliefs, as many sects of Judaism do. This is actually the reason behind a synagogue's lawsuit
against a new Florida law that bans abortions after 15 weeks. The Jewish congregation in the complaint
states that according to their religion, they believe abortion, is required if necessary to protect the health, mental or physical well-being
of the woman. So, what about their religious beliefs? Seems weird the people pushing religious freedom
don't seem to care about this, almost like they secretly want some kind of Christian theocracy.
But it certainly can't be that, can it? So again, this is why you see Crowder and Shapiro whining
about the leak or trying to convince people that Roe v. Wade getting killed is no big deal and you can just hop over to California.
This is why Tim Pool has to pose impossible make-them-ups where someone gives birth in an abortion clinic.
These logical facts before feelings dudes have to find ways not to actually argue their position,
because it just comes down to their religion and feelings. So they say dumb (beep) like the Nazis had abortions,
which, by the way, isn't (beep) true. Nazi Germany banned abortion and demanded the death penalty
for those who sought abortions in cases where the vitality of the German People is threatened.
The only time abortion was allowed was if it had a eugenics justification, aka, disabilities or "undesireable races."
The Nazis also banned doctors from providing information about abortions, something Germany has amazingly only recently changed.
Seems weird to have any Nazi-era rules on the books over there. Like even if they were innocuous laws,
I'd still like abolish the Nazi laws and then reinstate any that are just regular laws,
just to get that Nazi stink off of them. So, banning abortions because you think that a sperm-and-egg cocktail makes a soul
isn't exactly a logical argument. Luckily, Ben Shapiro is very good at making an emotional stance seem logical.
- The real question is where do you draw the lines? You can draw the line at the heart beat because it's very hard at the heartbeat, they are people who are adults
who are alive because of a pacemaker and they need some sort of outside force generating their heartbeat. Again, we can it based on brain function,
okay, what about people who are in comma, should we just kill them? The problem is any time you draw any line other than the inception of the child,
you end up drawing a false line that can also be applied to people who are adults. So, either human life has intrinsic value, or it doesn't.
I think we both agree that adult human life has intrinsic value, can we start from that premise? - I believe that sentience
is what gives something moral value, not necessarily being a human alone.
- So, when you're asleep, can I stab you? - I'm still considered sentient when I'm asleep.
- Okay, if you're in a comma from which you may awake, can I stab you? - Well then no, I guess not.
- I'm glad you answered that because I have no interest in actually murdering you. - But that's still potential sentience and it's still a potential...
- I agree it's still potential sentience, you know what else is potential sentience? Being a fetus. - Got them, roasted, life begins at inception,
that baby fetus is just like you in a comma. So like, his yummy yummy logical argument
is that we can't kill potential sentience. But like jizz is potential sentience, down the line,
that's why I name my jizz every time. So, are the eggs that come out during menses,
should people have to save their menstruation and take it to an IVF clinic to get it inseminated?
Should everyone who jerks off into their favorite body pillow of Lola Bunny get sent to jail? I mean, maybe, but not because of this.
That would be, like, basically 100% of the country in jail for Lola Bunny jizz crimes!
Look it up, the stats are out there. But it's especially interesting that Ben brought up a comatose patient as an example
because we actually don't force family members to keep people alive on life support machines, even in the case of children.
Yes, we don't literally let strangers stab them, but as Katy mentioned earlier, this country is big on letting people choose
what happens to their body or the bodies of their loved ones. If you were sentient in the 90s,
you might recognize this as a whole exhausting (beep)thing we went through with the Terri Schiavo case,
the courts ultimately deciding it was unconstitutional for the government to force a comatose patient
to be kept on a feeding tube. Although in Ben's defense, I don't think he's ever been sentient. Or maybe weirdos like Ben disagree with the Schiavo case
and would like to force families to keep their loved ones in a persistent vegetative state forever, despite their wishes.
Even in this case, his argument still doesn't work. Notice a bit of word-sleight of hand he does,
when he compares removing an embryo or fetus from your body to stabbing someone who is not a part of your body
or using your body. But if, say, Morbius grabbed onto you
and started sucking your blood, you'd actually be able to stab them in self defense, because they have suddenly robbed you
of your bodily autonomy. I'm pretty sure that's why it's legal to tase Jared Leto on sight,
or, well, one of the reasons why. One of 15 reasons, feel free to Google "Jared Leto 15"
to find out more. So, if embryos and fetuses grew in science fiction jars,
or if humans laid eggs, we wouldn't be having this argument. Mostly because we'd be too busy having delicious human egg omelets.
The problem isn't that the embryo or fetus exists, it's that they are growing and using someone else's body.
And so once again by every other medical standard we have, everyone should be allowed to decide if their body
should be used for this purpose. Not counting all the (beep) that comes with raising a child, pregnancy alone has a serious medical impact.
It's not a (beep) person in a comma, Ben, but again, I think he knows that. But he can't just say that he feels like abortion is wrong,
also just a thought, but maybe some of these guys have a bit of deep-seated sexism issues to work out?
- Well, that's what I have a series... - It's always really, really unattractive women who for example, they bitch about cat calling,
they bitch about abortion, here's the thing, women who are attractive, this is just a theory, just to be clear, this is just conjecture,
I'm not a doctor on ugly chicks. Now, these often women wanna be like,
look sir, everybody wants to cat call me and I'm having so much sex that I have to have all these abortions, and everyone's like...
- Yeah, there it is, great tight five, holster boy. So other than Crowder and Shapiro
and basically every Republican lawmaker, maybe there are people out there who do believe in equal bodily autonomy for everyone,
are pro-choice, and would be okay with abortion. But those people also see a morally gray area
with late term abortions, which is not a medical term but a political one, by the way. That's worth talking about, because those are people
who might easily be swayed into banning abortions completely. I think it's also what Tim Pool thinks he is,
they're a lot of people who often say stuff like, I'm all for choice but we need to draw a line,
so logically, facts before feelings et cetera, if you don't want late-term abortions,
the best way to do that is to allow access to abortion early and removing any barrier to early intervention,
which again, is what 92% of abortions already are? Like we mentioned earlier, the reasons for that small percentage of later abortions,
other than saving the mother's life or conditions for the fetus incompatible with life, is the person simply not having access
to an abortion earlier. So, if we want all non-medical abortions to happen early,
shouldn't we make it easier to have abortions right away? If it's really about that gray area of later abortions,
the Tim Pools of the world should be really invested in making sure people have access to abortions as early
and easily as possible. And shit, if you're really against abortion altogether, shouldn't you also be screaming from the rooftops
for more access to sex education? Abstinence-Only Education actually raises teen pregnancies,
while Comprehensive Sex Education decreases them. Teens who got Comprehensive Sex Education
were 60% less likely to report becoming pregnant or impregnating someone than teens who did not receive sex education,
and 50% less likely than teens who received Abstinence Only Education. Another study found that an increase in funding
for comprehensive sex education lowered the overall teen birth rate in the whole country by 3%.
There's also evidence that family planning education and counseling provided by Planned Parenthood reduced unintended pregnancies.
That thing anti-choice people hate. I don't really support meeting these ghouls at their level,
but it's worth pointing out that abortion in this country has been going down for decades.
After Roe v. Wade passed, there was a brief increase in the number of abortions, and then a steady decline.
This is a trend seen in other countries around the world with legal abortion. In fact, nations studied that
had more restrictive abortion laws actually saw an increase in the rates of abortion. This doesn't necessarily mean that abortion restrictions
directly cause abortions, or a lack of those laws directly causes the rates to go down, but it could be that societies
with more restrictions may also limit other aspects of reproductive education, health, and control,
which would then result in more unintended pregnancies, and more abortions. And so, if you actually wanted fewer abortions
or really valued all life, it's actually against your goal to eliminate places like Planned Parenthood.
It's against your goal to support the GOP's agenda on health care in general. For example, the Affordable Care Act
may have led to greater access to contraceptives, which has, according to the Guttmacher institute,
driven the long-term decline in adolescent pregnancies and births, but since providing people healthcare,
contraceptives, and education is too communist, it's apparently much easier to blame women,
or anyone who can get pregnant, ooh, and also immigrants, we love blaming immigrants for junk and stuff.
Because maybe, just maybe, for some of these people, it's not actually about preserving life at all,
so much as preserving a population. The white population, to be specific.
As you might have already heard, there's this thing going around called The Great Replacement Theory.
It's a white nationalist belief that white people are being replaced by brown people, which is espoused by right-wing terrorists
and Tucker Carlson, the and there being optional, and this flaccid Nazi hogwash is also often used
as a justification to ban abortion. To quote the head of the Conservative Political Action Conference, Matt Schlapp,
"If you say there is a population problem in a country, but you're killing millions of your own people
through legalized abortion every year, if that were to be reduced, some of that problem is solved.
If you're worried about this "replacement," why don't we start there? Start with allowing our own people to live."
This is where we get into that Handmaid's Tale (beep). The people casually pitching we turn American women,
white American women into baby factories to keep those damn immigrants from living here, somehow.
Now, I'm not here to call every anti-choice person a white supremacist, just Tucker Carlson. But I do think that this anti-abortion stuff,
combined with the GOPs total unwillingness to support contraception or actual sex education, combined with their absolutely (beep) views
and policies on rape and incest, feels like it's purposefully designed to force women to have babies they don't want.
Either because of some religious or traditional view of what a woman is supposed to be, a secret need to control women,
or yeah, maybe some of them are (beep) white supremacists. What they certainly aren't worried about
is actually protecting children. And in fact, they might hate children, it sounds harsh, but I'm just going by every single one
of their legislative actions when it comes to children. Remember when I said we'd talk about how the GOP
and Dems sure hate children? This is that part, and as a disclaimer, nothing against people who hate children.
I hate children all the time, just this morning I threw a brick at a school bus. But it's pretty darn hypocritical
of these people claiming to be pro-life to ignore all the actual health problems that kids in this country face every day.
Like I mentioned earlier, our infant mortality rates are a joke, but not like a ha-ha joke,
compared to other rich, and even much less rich countries. We're worse than Latvia, whose per capita GDP is less than a fourth
of that of the US. Research has shown that the disparity between our infant mortality rates
and other countries actually increases after birth and in the first few months. It seems like prenatal death of babies
is not as significantly different than the postnatal death of babies, especially once they reach a month of age.
So, we are failing babies once they're born, and trying to survive their first few months.
Socioeconomic factors seem to be driving this almost entirely. According to the study, "Why Is Infant Mortality Higher
in the United States Than in Europe?" "Higher US postneonatal mortality relative to Europe is due entirely, or almost entirely, to higher mortality
among disadvantaged groups." So, if you care about these babies' lives, you should support spending on welfare for parents,
such as child tax credits, which Republicans and pseudo Republicans oppose. Sad trombone noise, or maybe sad baby noise?
Sad baby playing a sad trombone noise! (trombone playing) Beautiful, good, hey aside,
it's actually really hard to work jokes into a video about dead kids and abortion, but we're doing it.
Any who, school children can get bent and go hungry, says Mitch McConnell, who wants to
"defend innocent human life". And don't get me started on children who weren't lucky enough to be born on America-brand dirt.
If Conservatives love children, they should be opposing sanctions in Afghanistan, which are predicted to kill 1 million children
due to starvation if it's not stopped. But Republicans are of course in favor of sanctions, as is the Biden administration who imposed them.
Republicans, as well as establishment Democrats, also opposed the proposal by congresswoman Pramila Jayapal
that would assess the sanctions to see where they could be eased to save children's lives.
So, kinda seems like they hate children? Or maybe it's cold indifference? But they sure aren't indifferent when it comes to embryos,
because when it comes right down to it, they like the embryos, fetuses, heck even the blastocysts,
more than fully realized children, probably because the embryos don't need money for schools
or medical care. The fetus can't protest climate change or have opinions, or come out as gay or trans
and get sent to conversion torture camps. A blastocyst is a model citizen, because it has no free will.
It's just the vague concept of a person without any complex details, like a crash test dummy or Gwyneth Paltrow.
So maybe that's why they're so much more concerned with fighting for the zygote's rights
than for children to be able to go to school without getting murdered. We've had many instances of mass murder of children,
even though it sure seems like one is too many. But even after Columbine, Sandy Hook, Stoneman Douglas High,
and now the Robb Elementary School in Uvalde, the only answer Republicans have to "hey our children are dying in their own schools,"
is proposing dumb (beep) like invading schools with former military members. Yeah, just put the military in schools,
it'll be a great learning tool to teach children about imperialism. Other solutions include Ted Cruz's
"get rid of all the doors except one door" in schools, which is a good way to turn a school into a death cube
in the case of a fire, or just a regular prison. Or like the other solution is arming teachers,
which is weird given that Republicans now think teachers are brainwashing and grooming children, so they obviously want to give those teachers guns?
Not to mention now you have a school full of guns for kids to find, like the world's worst scavenger hunt.
Oh boy. But you don't even have to agree with banning guns
to realize "no more doors" or "put the military in schools" aren't serious solutions to the problem.
There are tons of gun safety regulations and laws that lie between total ban and give all the teachers and kids
and the class hamster guns. But the reason these pro-life Republicans are uninterested in any serious conversation
about gun safety is that it's hard. It means the NRA stops paying their campaigns millions
and millions of dollars. It means they have to face their own gun culture and maybe change it, but that's hard.
Making sure that children are well taken care of, fed, safe, and happy, is hard.
But it's just much easier simply to put all that responsibility on pregnant people,
force them to give birth, give them no financial support, and then blame them if they're too poor to care for their child,
all while pretending to care about children. But at least there are people who do actually care
about other people, about children, and anyone who might be forced through a pregnancy. And guess what?
I'm looking at them right now. Literally, my pigeon army sees all. So, if you want to help out,
you can donate to the Gulf Coast Planned Parenthood that is helping people in Louisiana and Texas, you can also be compassionate towards people
who are being held hostage in their own states by anti-abortion laws. You can donate to the National Network of Abortion Funds,
which helps people seeking abortions. And if you care about children's lives, maybe consider donating to the World Food program,
which provides food to children and schools and people all over the world. But you don't need money to help,
you can just talk to people, talk to your friends and family, offer comfort to anyone who's scared,
make sure you can be that person that someone can come to if they're in trouble and need medical help.
And if you have kids, make sure you're the kind of parent whose child can come to them if they're pregnant and scared,
and they know you'll offer them reproductive choice and help without judgment. The humany, peopley things that people do
when they're being people, and not just embryo worshipers. Because this is about everyone,
it's not gender specific, it's a fight for basic bodily autonomy, and the choice to be a parent for everyone.
And if we don't push back, it's not going to stop at abortion. It's not even going to stop at contraception,
it's going to keep going for as long as we let a minority of Conservatives continue to push their religious beliefs
on the rest of the population. Which is why I'm gonna go I guess, punch a hole through my wall.
Is what the lesson here is today, apparently.
(Cody groans) Oh my God, she was right, this does feel great.
See you later. (upbeat music)
I need a new house, I ruined it with my fists.
But, that's therapy. - Hey folks, thank you so much
for watching that completely uplifting episode. You can hit like, you can hit subscribe for future videos,
you can go to our Patron for exclusive contents, you can listen to our podcast, even more news
and those are the things I'm supposed to say. Cody, you're making me very uncomfortable.
He hates when I host. - You know it, like it good.